Team Flight/Data/flirt.eha.io/README.md, before:

## Description

JS and Python scripts used for fetching and storing flight data from [flirt.eha.io](https://flirt.eha.io/). The app uses [Meteor](https://www.meteor.com/) for its data-layer. We can exploit its remote procedure calls ([Meteor Methods](https://guide.meteor.com/methods.html)) and request the backend for flights schedules matching a specific mongo query.

## Usage

By default the client script will begin downloading _all_ the flight schedule records beginning from departure airport code `AAA`. If you wish to start downloading from a higher code value, update `fromDeptCode` arg for `beginFetching` function call in `client.js`

### Boot the application

**Storage Server Startup**

```console
cd Team Flight/Data/flirt.eha.io
pip install -r requirements.txt
python writer.py <data_output_volume>
```

**Client Startup**  
Following instructions have been tested on chrome.

1. Go to <https://flirt.eha.io/> and wait for site to finish loading.
2. Open browser console (`ctrl-shift-j`)
3. Paste `client.js` script and press enter.

The browser should begin downloading pages for each departure airport and sending them to the server for permanent storage.

### Accidental Termination

In case, the server or the client is terminated or stops responding mid-way, take note of the name for last page file written in server logs. The page file name follows the convention: `<departure-airport-code>-<page-size>.json`. When restarting the procedure, use the `<departure-airport-code>` as `fromDeptCode` for `beginFetching` call in `client.js`.

## Quickly Fetching Data Statistics

To obtain an updated report on stats without downloading all the data, run the following in the browser console after loading the [app](https://flirt.eha.io/):

```console
// Print total number of records matching the specified query.
Meteor.call('flightsByQuery', query, 1, (err, res) => {
  if (err) console.log(err);
  console.log(res.totalRecords);
});
```

> Refer to the [schema below](#raw-flight-schedule-schema) to build your query.

#### Examples

- The database contains a total of `224933` flight schedule records.  
  `query = {_id: {$exists: true}}`

- `17` of these schedules correspond to flights arriving in _Vancouver_ from _China_.  
  `query = {"departureAirport.countryName": "China", "arrivalAirport._id": "YVR"}`
- `61` of these schedules correspond to flights arriving in _Canada_ from _China_.  
  `query = {"departureAirport.countryName": "China", "arrivalAirport.countryName": "Canada"}`

### Raw Flight Schedule Schema

<pre>
{
  _id,                 [object]  contains mongo document `oid`
  effectiveDate,       [string]  flight authorized to run on this schedule
  discontinuedDate,    [string]  flight discontinued to run on this schedule
  day1                [boolean]  whether flight is scheduled on Monday (UTC)
  day2                [boolean]  whether flight is scheduled on Tuesday (UTC)
  ⋮
  day7                [boolean]  whether flight is scheduled on Sunday (UTC)

  carrier              [string]  carrier airline company code
  flightNumber         [number]
  totalSeats,          [number]  total occupancy of flight
  departureTimeUTC     [string]
  arrivalTimeUTC       [string]

  departureAirport: {
    _id,               [string]  airport iata code
    name,              [string]  airport full name
    notes              [string]  any relevant info about the airport
    city,              [string]
    state              [string]  state code
    stateName          [string]  state full name
    country,             [null]  not relevant; always null
    countryName,       [string]
    WAC                [number]  World Area Code
    globalRegion,      [string]
    loc: {
      type,            [string]
      coordinates,       [list]  [<longitude>, <latitude>]
    },
  }
  arrivalAirport:      [object]  same structure as `departureAirport`

  calculatedDates:       [list]  verified schedule dates recorded by server?
  scheduleFileName:    [string]  *unknown; file name search to some  
                                 <a href="http://apps.eha.io/flight-data-validation.html">analysis conducted by flirt</a>
  flightsOverInterval: [number]  *unknown; all records have value 0
  seatsOverInterval:   [number]  *unknown; all records have value 0
}
</pre>

## Data Transformation

Best way is to simply import all json files into mongoDB to perform local queries:  
`for file in <raw_data_dir>/*.json; do mongoimport -h localhost:27017 --db corona --collection schedules --type json --file $file; done`

> Refer to `transformation` directory for mongoDB transformation scripts.  
> Configure any necessary collection indexes to speed up computation.

### Extracted Datasets

- [Schedules](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1EZJpA_x2zXbgEQ86Y3StAI2pOISjaWmm) from [coronavirus infected areas](https://gisanddata.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6) to YVR airport.  
  TODO increase the scope from YVR to Vancouver.
- [Schedules](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1EZJpA_x2zXbgEQ86Y3StAI2pOISjaWmm) from [coronavirus infected areas](https://gisanddata.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6) to cities with `high outbound traffic` to Vancouver  
  Can be used as an intermediary layer between affected areas and Vancouver.

## Development

If you wish to run a file watcher to automatically restart storage server on file save event:

```console
pip install watchdog
watchmedo auto-restart --directory=<this-dir> -p="*.py" -- python writer.py <data_output_volume>
```

Commit message:

readme: dataset 1 scope todo done; add docs for dataset 2

Team Flight/Data/flirt.eha.io/README.md, after:

## Description

JS and Python scripts used for fetching and storing flight data from [flirt.eha.io](https://flirt.eha.io/). The app uses [Meteor](https://www.meteor.com/) for its data-layer. We can exploit its remote procedure calls ([Meteor Methods](https://guide.meteor.com/methods.html)) and request the backend for flights schedules matching a specific mongo query.

## Usage

By default the client script will begin downloading _all_ the flight schedule records beginning from departure airport code `AAA`. If you wish to start downloading from a higher code value, update `fromDeptCode` arg for `beginFetching` function call in `client.js`

### Boot the application

**Storage Server Startup**

```console
cd Team Flight/Data/flirt.eha.io
pip install -r requirements.txt
python writer.py <data_output_volume>
```

**Client Startup**  
Following instructions have been tested on chrome.

1. Go to <https://flirt.eha.io/> and wait for site to finish loading.
2. Open browser console (`ctrl-shift-j`)
3. Paste `client.js` script and press enter.

The browser should begin downloading pages for each departure airport and sending them to the server for permanent storage.

### Accidental Termination

In case, the server or the client is terminated or stops responding mid-way, take note of the name for last page file written in server logs. The page file name follows the convention: `<departure-airport-code>-<page-size>.json`. When restarting the procedure, use the `<departure-airport-code>` as `fromDeptCode` for `beginFetching` call in `client.js`.

## Quickly Fetching Data Statistics

To obtain an updated report on stats without downloading all the data, run the following in the browser console after loading the [app](https://flirt.eha.io/):

```console
// Print total number of records matching the specified query.
Meteor.call('flightsByQuery', query, 1, (err, res) => {
  if (err) console.log(err);
  console.log(res.totalRecords);
});
```

> Refer to the [schema below](#raw-flight-schedule-schema) to build your query.

#### Examples

- The database contains a total of `224933` flight schedule records.  
  `query = {_id: {$exists: true}}`

- `17` of these schedules correspond to flights arriving in _Vancouver_ from _China_.  
  `query = {"departureAirport.countryName": "China", "arrivalAirport._id": "YVR"}`
- `61` of these schedules correspond to flights arriving in _Canada_ from _China_.  
  `query = {"departureAirport.countryName": "China", "arrivalAirport.countryName": "Canada"}`

### Raw Flight Schedule Schema

<pre>
{
  _id,                 [object]  contains mongo document `oid`
  effectiveDate,       [string]  flight authorized to run on this schedule
  discontinuedDate,    [string]  flight discontinued to run on this schedule
  day1                [boolean]  whether flight is scheduled on Monday (UTC)
  day2                [boolean]  whether flight is scheduled on Tuesday (UTC)
  ⋮
  day7                [boolean]  whether flight is scheduled on Sunday (UTC)

  carrier              [string]  carrier airline company code
  flightNumber         [number]
  totalSeats,          [number]  total occupancy of flight
  departureTimeUTC     [string]
  arrivalTimeUTC       [string]

  departureAirport: {
    _id,               [string]  airport iata code
    name,              [string]  airport full name
    notes              [string]  any relevant info about the airport
    city,              [string]
    state              [string]  state code
    stateName          [string]  state full name
    country,             [null]  not relevant; always null
    countryName,       [string]
    WAC                [number]  World Area Code
    globalRegion,      [string]
    loc: {
      type,            [string]
      coordinates,       [list]  [<longitude>, <latitude>]
    },
  }
  arrivalAirport:      [object]  same structure as `departureAirport`

  calculatedDates:       [list]  verified schedule dates recorded by server?
  scheduleFileName:    [string]  *unknown; file name search to some  
                                 <a href="http://apps.eha.io/flight-data-validation.html">analysis conducted by flirt</a>
  flightsOverInterval: [number]  *unknown; all records have value 0
  seatsOverInterval:   [number]  *unknown; all records have value 0
}
</pre>

## Data Transformation

Best way is to simply import all json files into mongoDB to perform local queries:  
`for file in <raw_data_dir>/*.json; do mongoimport -h localhost:27017 --db corona --collection schedules --type json --file $file; done`

> Refer to `transformation` directory for mongoDB transformation scripts.  
> Configure any necessary collection indexes to speed up computation.

### Extracted Datasets

1. [Schedules](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1EZJpA_x2zXbgEQ86Y3StAI2pOISjaWmm) from [coronavirus infected areas](https://gisanddata.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6) to YVR airport.
2. [Schedules](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1EZJpA_x2zXbgEQ86Y3StAI2pOISjaWmm) from [coronavirus infected areas](https://gisanddata.maps.arcgis.com/apps/opsdashboard/index.html#/bda7594740fd40299423467b48e9ecf6) to cities with *high outbound traffic* to Vancouver.
   - Can be used as an intermediary layer between affected areas and Vancouver (Dataset 1).
   - A city is considered to have high outbound traffic if `total-seats/week` is at least `5000`.

## Development

If you wish to run a file watcher to automatically restart storage server on file save event:

```console
pip install watchdog
watchmedo auto-restart --directory=<this-dir> -p="*.py" -- python writer.py <data_output_volume>
```
